Python Iteration Module - closes #666 (#670)
bob-crutchley/courseware: topics/python/modules/iteration/README.md

# Iteration

<!--TOC_START-->
## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Types of Loop](#types-of-loop)
	- [While loop](#while-loop)
	- [For loop](#for-loop)
- [Loop functionality](#loop-functionality)
	- [Breaking loops](#breaking-loops)
	- [Nested loops](#nested-loops)
- [Tutorial](#tutorial)
- [Exercises](#exercises)

<!--TOC_END-->
## Overview

**Iteration** is another word for **loops**, they repeat a block of code again and again without having to write it multiple times.
This can save a lot of time.

## Types of Loop

> There are three main types of **loop** which we shall look at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two main types of **loop** which we shall look at:
```

- `while` loop
- `for` loop

> The functionality of all three is similar but they have slightly different uses and syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The functionality of both of these are similar but they have slightly different uses and syntax.
```

### For loop

For loops usually require some value to be incremented.

```python
for i in range(51):
    print(i)
```

This will print the numbers from 1 to 50.

The other use for `for loops` is iterating through a collection of data.

```python
animals = ["cow", "pig", "duck"]

for animal in animals:
    print(animal)
```

This will go through each animal in the list and print it.

## Loop functionality

### Breaking loops

Loops will end when their condition is no longer satisfied.
For **while loops** this is the condition that we specify at the start, and for **for loops** this is when there is no more incrementing to be done.

There are some tools in Python which can be used to break out of loops early:

- `break` - whenever this command is run, Python will break out of the current loop that it is in and continue to execute the code below the loop.
- `continue` - whenever this command is run, Python will immediately break out of the current iteration of a loop and move on to the next.

```python
for i in range(101):
    print(i)
    if i == 20:
        break
```
 

> This will print he numbers 1-20 then stop, since as soon as `i` is equal to `20`, Python *breaks* out of the loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will print the numbers 1-20 then stop, since as soon as `i` is equal to `20`, Python *breaks* out of the loop.
```
